Percent to 3.4 million, back to 87%
of the pre-COVID level.
Holiday arrivals, which is where our work as Tourism New Zealand has the greatest
impact, grew by 12% over that same period.
On a value sense, total international values visitor spending was
12.1 billion as reported by the International Visitor Survey, which
was up from 11.6 billion the year prior.
This reinforces tourism's role and its importance to the government's ambition of
doubling export value by 2034.
Against our measures, we achieved 12 out of the 15 performance
targets, and I really want to acknowledge our people and the work they did in
delivering those results.
A key enabler for FY25 was a $17 million one-time
limited additional funding from the International Visitor and Conservation
Levy. This allowed us to increase our activity to convert
demand, ramp up our conference bid program for business events,
and bring forward our latest
iteration of 100% Pure New Zealand's global marketing campaign.
We showcased our dark skies and our food and beverage offering during that time
with a star gazing campaign, and we leveraged the "Minecraft"
movie around the world with Mojang Studios and launched a
playable virtual world of New Zealand.
Those activities combined delivered over $60 million of equivalent
advertising value. The additional funding
produced very tangible results. It started with our Australia autumn
campaign that delivered almost 8,000 additional arrivals
against a target of 6,750. That is an estimated
$22 million of visitor spend. We also supported
$173 million worth of conference bids during that period,
which will bring international expertise to New Zealand
over the coming years.
Looking ahead, the minister and the government's expectations are clear.
Return visitor arrivals to the 2019 levels by the end of
this calendar year, 2026,
laddering up to the doubling of the value of tourism to 19.8
billion by 2034.
As part of that, we've refreshed our statement of intent to ensure our strategy
is aligned to deliver on both.
In the 2025 calendar year, we've reached 3.5 million
arrivals, 90%
recovered, with holiday arrivals 91%.
We are certainly monitoring the geopolitical risk, including disruption
from the conflict in the Middle East over the last month or so.
Though to date, those impacts are mainly for travelers transitioning or
transiting through that region, and our key markets are less
reliant on those hubs. It'll be important to note that New Zealand's
key markets, Australia, the US, and China, at
44%, 11%, and 7% of arrivals, are less
reliant on the Middle East as a transit zone and are essentially
operating with limited impact at this point in time.
So we're excited about converting our strategy into action, driving sustainable
growth, and working closely with the sector to keep New Zealand as a fantastic,
distinctive destination in our priority markets.
So I thank you, and happy to take any questions.
Thank you. We'll start with Glenn Bennett.
Kia ora, Madam Chair, and thanks for your time and for what you do
for your organization, but also for us as a country.
I really want to look at
your annual report and in terms of a high level for you,
what's a piece of innovation or success that you
can-- You mentioned Minecraft, you mentioned the dark sky experience that was on
social media. But I guess what's something you can see as sort of
highly successful in terms of a new innovation?
And then secondly, what has been one of the hardest or most challenging moments in
the last financial year?
Yeah. Thank you very much for the question.
I will touch on Minecraft because I touched on it briefly.
Minecraft is the most played game in the world.
And with the movie being made here in New Zealand, we saw a real opportunity
to leverage both the movie's production, but also to work with
Mojang Studios. In fact, we were the first destination
in the world to create a playable version of our destination with Mojang
Studios. We used a local developer here who created that.
We had six iconic locations in New Zealand that visitors
could travel or potential visitors could travel through.
And the reason we did that, actually, it started with consumer research.
We found that of the
couple of hundred million people that play Minecraft every month,
firstly, the average age is more like 25, 26, so it skews older than
we had thought. Secondly, there was about a third of that audience
overlaps with people that are interested in New Zealand.
So we thought there was a really compelling reason to also talk
to that audience.
And that's been very successful with people engaging with it and using it as a
way to
think about, consider, and book
a future trip to New Zealand. So that was one example that was quite
innovative in its own right. If I touch a little bit on what we're
focusing on today, it's very much about how do
we ensure that all of our work is increasingly
relevant in the world of AI?And so our role really
is, in particular, making sure that the content we create,
both for consumer and trade audiences, is discoverable not only by
consumers, but increasingly by machines.
So that is a real focus for us as an organization, making sure that,
we talk about having our target audience-
Mm
... but that is human beings as well as machines that are going to be digesting
this information.
I mean, so in terms of Minecraft, you've made a choice as an organization.
How did you come to choosing that, and then what sort of data
gathering, or how are you able to actually then reconcile that to actual visitor
numbers coming through our ports?
Yeah. So
it started because the movie was made here, so it had
a part of the economic support program around films.
That was why we started the conversation, to be able to get access to the movie, to
Warner Brothers, and to Mojang.
And then our measurement framework for it was predominantly
interest and increased interest and consideration for New Zealand.
We can track that through our research.
We could track how many people were downloading New Zealand as a
playable world in as part of that. Then what we did
is we leveraged some of our key trade partners to also use
that program. So I'll give you an example.
In Australia, Flight Centre is still the largest retail
travel seller in Australia. For the month
of,
I have to check exactly which month it was.
But for the month of the launch of the movie, all of the Flight Centre
stores were decorated and part of the Minecraft Visit
New Zealand program. So it was really trying to connect the promotional program
into conversion. There was a lot of packages being offered for sale
during that same period, and we tracked the sales through that
month
linked to the activity.
And
it shows that it was successful?
Yes, it was. Both on a former consideration set, so we tracked
in our research, is there an increase in consideration for travel for New
Zealand? We saw an uptick in that. And then we tracked the conversion numbers
through the
Flight Centre alone. There was in the vicinity of
7,000 tickets sold to New Zealand over that period.
So you translate that into average spend per person, and that's-- So we tracked it
both on an intent to travel for the future and actual bookings that
happened at the time.
Mm.
Yeah. Celia Gebre-Egziabher.
All right. Thank you for coming in.
I've got questions in some different areas, so are we-
So if you start with one area, and we'll see if there are any supplementaries
before we move on to the next one.
Thank you.
Yes.
I really wanted to start with your aims to bring business
travel here, and your relationship with the different convention
centers.
Yes.
If you could expand on that, and
how, again, how are you aiming--
Maybe it's a three-day conference.
Mm.
Presumably you're aiming to keep them there for some days before and after.
So how would you go about that?
Yes. Thank you very much for the question.
Business events in its own right is a very important
sector for New Zealand.
Not only does it bring delegates here and visitors here, but it also
acts very much as a knowledge exchange.
So you get subject matter experts across varying
areas that come here for those conventions and conferences.
We work in close collaborate-- So we have a distinct business events
bidding team that sits within Tourism New Zealand.
We work in close collaboration with the host
cities and the venues
to bid for those conferences. Most conferences,
it's very much a bidding system. They don't just turn up by chance.
It is for countries putting their pitch forward.
We try and also align those to the government's priorities in terms of subject
matters that we want to bring into the country.
And then it is about working with either
the association that's in charge of the conference or the
entity that's in charge of that conference and convincing them to come here.
We very much focus on a New Zealand first approach in terms of
choose the destination first.
And then, as it gets a bit further closer to decision, they might choose
Auckland or Wellington or Christchurch or another venue.
And then it is about making sure that we provide them with content to
entice their visitors. If you're going to come to New Zealand for a conference,
here are lots of activities that you can do in our place, either pre
or post. Here are trade partners you can talk to that can help you
with those bookings.
And then to varying degrees, visitors, as you say, will come pre and
post, and they might either bring friends and family
or they'll return in the future for another visit.
You have a supplementary, Celia?
No.
Yeah. All right. Krishna Tangiramanu.
Oh, thank you. Tena koe.
All right.
Great to see the name Manaakitanga Aotearoa in there.
Can you talk us through how your commitment to that
name is reflected in your daily business?
Yes.
Mm.
Yes, thank you for the question. It's certainly, we see it very much as crucial to
the tourism offer.
It is very much a truth of what people see here in
Aotearoa, New Zealand. Manaakitanga, the warmth and the
friendliness of the people. We know from our research that
fundamentally people come here to visit our beautiful landscapes and scenery,
and the variety that's pretty close by compared to other destinations.
But we know from exit interviews, when people leave, it's the friendliness and the
warmth of the people that is what stays with
them. Kiwis are so friendly. It's such a warm and welcoming place, and we see that
very much as the heart of Manaakitanga.
And within that, our unique Māori culture gives us,
as I say, a very unique platform to be able to promote a place to visit.
There is a tremendous amount of Māori
tourism op-Operators, we work very closely
with New Zealand Māori tourism across those platforms as
well. So we see it very much at the heart of the uniqueness of the New
Zealand offer.
But in terms of the word and it being a Māori concept-
Mm
... so how do you work with Māori to ensure that the
experiences people are having are authentically Māori?
And not just experiences, but in design-
Yeah
... throughout the organization.
Yeah. So we have, one of my executive team
members is our GM of Te Ao Māori, so he helps us with
our internal capability as well as with our external
storytelling.
The second, as I say, we work very closely with New Zealand Māori tourism and their
operators. And we also work very closely with a number
of
larger tourism organizations. So Te Puia in Rotorua, for example, we
do a lot of work
in combination with them.
And so it's really not just one touch point, but across all of those things in
terms of not only internal capability building, but also,
working with Māori partners to make sure that we have, that our
content is right, our storytelling is right, and we can deliver on that.
Thank you.
Nieu-Pamri from Glenbrook.
Yeah, thank you. I want to touch on funding of your organization.
Mm.
You mentioned the IVL in your opening statements, but you did have a
reduction in baseline funding
in the '24, '25, and then the $17 million,
as you said there. How have you managed that?
Mm.
And are you actually able to deliver on your remit with-
Yeah
... the sort of reduction in funding?
Yeah, that's right. So we started financial year '25 or year
'24, '25 with a 5% reduction in our baseline
funding.
We managed that at the start of the financial year.
Those savings, we realized about half of those savings came
from reduced marketing at that time.
The other half came from reduced people costs and
some office and infrastructure costs.
So we did reduce our staffing levels as a consequence to do that.
When it came to the back end of the financial year, it was about the last
quarter that the boost fund
came.
We scaled
that
back up through our core work, if you like.
So a lot of that was how do we increase our
media spend around the world, how do we work with our joint venture partners.
So it was a little bit of a game of two halves in terms of how we
managed that.
So in terms of
reduced marketing, your job is to market New Zealand to the world.
Yes.
Has that impacted on visitor numbers?
And the second part is around the IVL, which wasn't intended
for funding you as an organization.
Mm.
That's a one-off. What are you going to do if or when that dries up?
Yeah, so you're right. We had to reset our organization to the cut.
We tried to minimize the reduction in marketing, but we had to reduce some
marketing, and how we did that is we focused very much on our core
markets to protect the marketing investment in those.
So Australia,
the US and China is more than 60% of total international arrivals, so they are very
much like most New Zealand exports-
Yeah
... the engine room of tourism.
For example, we removed some paid marketing out of the German market when we had
to do that reduction,
and we reduced some of our people.
The next phase, later in that financial year, we did get the boost funding from the
IVL to enable us to fuel back up some of that
marketing around the world. So we actually went back to markets like Germany and
started paid marketing again.
Financial year '26 that we're in now, we also received another boost
in funding to enable us to build on that momentum, and
we await the next financial year in terms of budget
confirmation.
So in terms of you stopping some advertising in Germany, do you have
good data sets? Are you able to see, could you see a direct result
in terms of a decline in Germans coming into New Zealand?
Not directly German arrivals. We did see a bit of a decline of
intent to travel.
Okay.
And the reverse is also true. We actually, when we put funding back in, we have
seen some growth in some of those brand metrics, intent
to travel, intent to book. We very much tried to protect in
that
funding reduction. We very much tried to protect-- So if you think about it, we
have consumer marketing, and then we have trade partnerships.
So that's more the B2B, how do we work with intermediaries who sell New
Zealand?
Mm.
We very much tried to protect that in that reduction in funding.
So still enable the conversion partners to do their work to
get people to book. So we didn't-- I can't give you a direct correlation with an
immediate reduction in spend, but I did see a reduction
in some brand measures. And the reverse is also true.
We have seen some of those improve when we have started to invest back into
marketing in that particular market.
Mm.
Mm-hmm.
And my final on this one is,
in terms of our second largest export, it will be again our
largest export, and I guess in terms of government
honoring that and showing that it is of huge value to us
as in New Zealand's economy, have you done work in the
past year or recent years looking at other international models of
tourism bodies? For example, Ireland or-
Yeah.
Mm.
... Canada or Australia-
Yes
... and in terms of where our funding's sitting compared to other countries that we
compare ourselves with?
Yeah. I've looked, and if you name Australia and Ireland, those are probably very
relevant partners. Have a good relationship with both of those tourism boards.
I've also spoken in the past to Destination Canada, Brand USA, so
some of those other kind of, I guess, similar organizations.
But they're all slightly different in terms of how they're funded.
So Ireland has Tourism Ireland, which is the promotional arm.
They also have an organization called Failte Ireland-
Yeah, Failte Ireland
... which is more of a sort of destination management, domestic marketing-
Mm. Mm
... part to their system.
So that's a little
different.Tourism Australia
has obviously their national fund, but also have quite well-funded states-
Mm-hmm
... that have their own funds within that.
Look, I think like a lot of businesses in New Zealand, I think we
battle well
with the resources that we have.
Mm-hmm.
The more you have, the easier it is to do your job.
But at the same time, we have a significant fund.
Tourism New Zealand is funded at $105 million of baseline
funding.
Mm-hmm.
Our job is to go, how do we make sure that is used as efficiently as possible?
Marketing efficiencies continue to improve, albeit there's also
cost of media pressure-
Mm-hmm
... so how do we make sure we get the most out of that?
It's quite variable across the different parts of the world what happens to their
funding. Sometimes it can be a bit political-
Yeah
... in terms of, I've seen that in the USA, for example, where funding has gone up
and down quite dramatically over periods of time.
But I think broadly speaking, it's been very consistent and I think that's
important, particularly for a faraway destination like New Zealand.
Mm-hmm. All right. I'll put myself for a question here.
So in your opening remarks, you
sounded quite optimistic about getting back to 2019 levels.
Can you elaborate on that? And also with the visa waiver for-
Mm-hmm
... Chinese nationals coming to Australia,
how is that affecting the numbers?
Yeah.
Are you seeing any
positive results there?
Yeah. Thank you very much.
The reason for my optimism in noting, of course, the conflict in the Middle East at
the moment, that we don't-
Exactly
... yet know what the medium-term impact of that is.
The short-term impact for the month of March seems to have been
minimal from an arrivals perspective to New Zealand.
But prior to that, if I look at our recovery and the
arrivals to
January of 2026, in fact, the tourism sector for the six months to
January 2026 is totally 94%
recovered. We have seen holiday arrivals over that period
grow at more than 11%. So I think New Zealand
is well-placed as a destination, as a safe
destination, as a destination that you have a lot of variety and you can
explore. And I think we're well-placed in the age where
increasingly people are wanting to spend money on experiences possibly more than
things. So I think we're well-placed as a
location, as a brand from that perspective.
Mm-hmm.
I think we've had a lot of promotion collectively of New Zealand
over recent years, and we've really seen the momentum grow off the back
of that. So if you think about our targets of total arrivals back
to
3.9 million, which was the 2019 level, we are
on track. The midpoint of that is June of this year, is 3.7
million. We are within reach of that target.
And we're positive for the momentum.
We have seen positive airline growth.
You've seen the likes of Thai Airways commit to returning to New
Zealand. You've seen Qantas and Jetstar increase their capacity on the
Tasman for New Zealand. So there's good signals from
important partners about New Zealand.
And probably the last point I'll make is,
certainly in the last three or four months, we have seen a real turnaround of the
Chinese visitor market. That's a vastly different market to what it
was in 2019. It's a higher value visitor market that's
coming to New Zealand, but we've seen really strong growth rates.
Certainly, if I look over the months of January, February, and indicatively over
the months of March,
we're a very popular destination for Chinese visitors.
And helped,
to your point, by the dual destination,
I guess, removal of friction.
So that has certainly been very positive.
We've seen a lot of Chinese
visitors traveling via Australia to come to New
Zealand. Direct arrivals into New Zealand's growing, but also
indirect via Australia is also growing.
And certainly from the research that Immigration New Zealand has conducted,
that is seen as a very positive move, and made it easier for Chinese
visitors to choose New Zealand.
Mm-hmm. Great. It'd be good to-
Dr. Hamish Gavin.
Our cruise numbers are down.
Mm-hmm.
What do you attribute that to, and what impact is that having on
our overall tourist numbers?
Yeah. The cruise season has been down a bit this year, and
the outlook is positive for a recovery of that.
Some of that has been driven a bit by
competitive nature of cruise making decisions on where do I best
deploy those assets. This season has been
a little lighter than it was the year before.
Having said that, as we look to next year and the year ahead, there's a pretty
positive outlook that that will grow, notwithstanding what the impact is
obviously of the current crisis and the fuel pricing as a consequence.
But it's probably been a bit--
It's a competitive game and destinations are aggressive
for competing also for cruise and
I think some other destinations have been chosen.
Mm-hmm.
New question from Celia Woodbra.
Yes. Thank you very much. Completely different area of questioning, which is
RTOs
funding. There are individual grants for events and things
like that-
Mm-hmm
... from central government, but they're basically local funding.
My first question in that area is,
how concerned are you that
already some councils don't fund, don't contribute to RTOs,
that the new pressures on councils will reduce that,
and potentially the legislative change
may make some think they've got a great excuse not to do anything?
Mm-hmm. Yeah. RTOs, regional tourism organizations.
Thank you for the question. They are
certainly an important partner and an important part of the tourism system.
There are 31 in New Zealand. They represent their region.
They have the knowledge of their region, and we work in strong partnership with
them. So,
our job is to fundamentally bring people to New
Zealand-Ultimately visitors, but also
the trade partners that help convert those visitors.
But the RTOs are the experts of their region,
in terms of the new products and whatever is being developed as well.
So funding is important for them to be able to deliver that job.
The other part I'll say is what the role that the RTOs play is also
crucially important for domestic tourism.
So we often talk about tourism, and we think about international
visitors only, but actually if you take the total value of tourism at
about $44 billion, 60% of that is New Zealanders going on
holiday in New Zealand. And that is very much the role of the
RTO, is the domestic tourism part.
So they-
Mm
... they also promote what is the largest sub-segment of tourism
as a sector.
Yes, I understand that. What I'm asking is, are you concerned about
councils reducing their funding of the RTO?
Look, yes, I am concerned that RTOs will struggle to deliver on their
remit. I understand the challenge of the councils having to make those
decisions on their funding.
And do you think it would be
possible to have slightly fewer than 30,
31, and adequately represent the different tourism
offerings in the country?
I think ultimately that's for the councils to decide.
But I do think when a visitor comes here, particularly an international
visitor,
they don't know when they cross an invisible line-
Mm-hmm
... from one region to the next. So I do think there's an opportunity, but we
already see that, of going, actually, how do they work at more of a macro level?
And you already see that.
The North Island RTOs, for example, have recently put
together
Visit North or Northern-
Kiwi North
... Kiwi North, thank you. Kiwi North as a collaboration.
We've had Pure South. So we've had versions of that.
Yes, I do think that creates greater impact if they collaborate closely
together.
And which countries combine...
We talked about the Irish example-
Mm-hmm
... and I think it's fairly close to domestic and international marketing, because
every dollar not spent on somebody going to Rarotonga is a dollar kept here as
well.
Yes, yes.
Which countries have got the best integration, as far as you know, and you
might not know, between the domestic
packaging and the international?
Yeah.
I haven't found the perfect model yet,
as you can imagine. But I do think the Irish model is quite
progressive in terms of it's been a consolidation through Failte
Ireland.
They have essentially
four agreed touring routes of Ireland.
And then they align what is the product development requirement for
those. They do the domestic promotion of that.
And then Tourism Ireland is focused on very much international
attraction to deliver on that. I don't think there is a perfect
model, but I do think that does appear to be quite a strong model.
Mm.
Having said that, I think Tourism Australia and the States also have a
slightly different version, but that works well.
They're well-funded states within that as well.
Mm-hmm. A supplementary.
Yeah, thank you. And just regarding those regional tourism organizations, I know
that your, obviously, legislation is international, not local.
Yes.
But in terms of, again, the marketing,
in terms of I've got around the country, met with many RTOs where they've gone to
China, for example, and then they meet with a provider who's like, "Oh,
yeah, your guys were here a month ago," or, "You guys were here two weeks ago."
Mm-hmm.
Do you play a role in terms of coordinating, I guess, that one voice to the world?
Yes, absolutely. So our core task, as you say, is we work
exclusively offshore.
Yeah.
So
all of our marketing, all of our work is trying to get international visitors to
come to New Zealand.
There is an overlap at times with certain regions that do that.
We try and by and large, that works pretty well, as we
very much try to coordinate that so that we turn up as New Zealand as a
country first.
Mm.
And I think that's really important.
So
there is an upcoming road trip to the United States, for example,
that actually Tataki Auckland Unlimited is leading with its operators,
but we'll be very much lock and step with them to make sure that it is New
Zealand, Auckland,
as the destination.
And also in Australia, we try and do that.
Australia is probably a little different from the long-haul markets.
You've got multiple direct ports of access.
You've got activity-driven marketing, whether it's skiing or hiking
or whatever that might be. But also there, we try and really facilitate
coordinate. So just in the last couple of weeks, we have our annual
RTO gathering in Sydney where we actually bring the
key Australian trade partners in to meet with, in this case, I think it was
25 of 31 RTOs, so that you get a
consolidation and greater impact as a result.
Mm-hmm. A supplementary, Dr. Davidson.
Yeah.
Same line of questioning. And I know that there's been a
real shift towards destination management
in the activities across the whole system.
So my question is, how is Failte Ireland funded?
Mm.
At my understanding, Failte Ireland and Tourism Ireland are funded
by the central government.
Yeah.
Yeah. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Great question.
New primary from Glen Benjamin.
Oh, thank you.
I want to talk about off-peak travel.
Mm.
Part of the minister's tourism growth roadmap is part of it, and also
part of your work-
Yeah
... as off, how do we build the off-peak?
You didn't get there this round. Can you just talk to that for us, please?
Well, we got there on a...
You're right. So maybe I'll go back a step. Thank you.
Off-peak travel's really important.
One of the key challenges for the tourism sector is its
reliance on the peak season.
Yeah.
Mm.
So in round numbersBetween December and February,
about 40% of the total international visitor spend falls
in that three months.
Mm-hmm.
And then it's varying degrees of drop-off after that.
And some regions more extreme than others.
Northland, for example, the peak is even peakier-
Mm.
... and the trough is even deeper. So, uh-
Their biggest customer is Auckland.
Yes. Yes. And so that is a key challenge, obviously, for
investment, for employment, for productivity, all of that.
But you flip that, there's also an opportunity to grow that.
We've got under-utilized capacity for a number of months of the year, dependent
on the region. So,
that's a really important part of our role, and that is to
bust some myths. New Zealand's actually got a, broadly speaking, pretty temperate
climate.
It's pretty accessible. Most of the activities you can do year-round,
but if you live in Chicago or Shanghai or Beijing, you may not necessarily know
that. So our job is to explain to you that actually, the middle of winter in
most of the country is still pretty mild relative to maybe living in Chicago.
We didn't quite get there in this financial year on some of the metrics.
Mm.
Having said that, we did in terms of arrival numbers,
so of the three measures we missed in a KPI.
So our off-peak arrival targets were met in terms of visitor numbers.
The number of guest nights in the region during that
period, we did not hit.
Yeah.
And that was predominantly driven by market mix.
So Europe was a little slower to recover in the period of
this financial year than some of the other markets.
Europeans are the longest-staying visitors, and length of
stay is directly correlated to number of regions visited.
So we hit the targets of number of people arriving, but the mix
was a little different than we anticipated, so therefore less in the regions, if
that makes sense.
Mm. So what were you doing as an organization
to extend those off-peak
travel?
Yeah. Well,
when we went further into-- So with our boost funding and going into
FY26,
sorry, this financial year, '26, the off-peak focus was a little
superseded with actually recovery to 2019 levels.
Yeah.
So the boost funding was driven very much by
year-round,
and recovery of those numbers. So we have continued the work in terms
of we've got to make New Zealand appealing year-round.
But we've been very focused actually on the core metric of recovery to the
2019 levels.
Mm.
Having said that, it's very encouraging to see, we just closed out March,
again noting the conflict in the Middle East.
The border crossings, which is a good indicative number of how many people came to
New Zealand, it's not perfect because it needs reconciliation at passport
level, but it showed that visitor arrivals to New Zealand in the month of March,
which we consider to be the off-peak, was up 13% on last year.
So a pretty strong number. When we talk about off-peak, we
talk about March to November
because of that narrow summer travel period.
So just in terms of, you talked about there's a decline in the average stay,
and then I looked at the annual report,
there are fewer visitors traveling to four or more regions.
So those two are connected.
That's right.
And what does that mean for, I guess, the tourism sector and smaller
regions?
Yeah.
What's the consequences of that?
Yeah. Thank you. It is predominantly driven by market mix, as I say.
So Europeans are still the slowest recovery.
Okay.
So that's been a bit slower to recover than the rest of the market.
Our focus very much as we look forward, ultimately, length of stay
is a real value driver. You want people, if they come all the way to New Zealand,
to stay as long as possible.
Mm-hmm.
The longer they stay, the more regions they visit, and as a consequence, the more
money they spend and the more activities they undertake.
It is a bit, I guess, constrained by your annual leave
availability, depending on the country.
Yeah.
It's quite hard to get an American to come for four weeks because of their annual
leave provisions. But I think
that'll continue to be a focus to us.
At the moment,
we've lagged a little bit just because of that market mix has been a bit slower.
Mm.
But Europe will continue to be important, notwithstanding the current crisis.
I've got to sup on that, if I may.
You've finished yours?
Yeah.
Celia will go.
It was just about then, given
the appalling holiday allocation in America, I've got a
son living there, so I do know a little bit there.
Have you done any marketing about times of change,
graduation, retirement, honeymoon?
Mm.
The sort of times when people actually have a bit more of a time and
focus more on that than they might get two weeks at Christmas.
Yeah. Thank you. That's a very good
question, and one of the key things that we
focus on is starting with the audience.
So who's the audience we're trying to target?
Mm.
And then understanding essentially what motivates them and what's their
barriers to travel.
So you always want to look at a mix of people that you're targeting.
Mm-hmm.
And in the US, there are some people that are, to use your example, there are some
people that are confined by annual leave, but there's also plenty of audiences that
aren't, whether they're retired or whether they
have just graduated, or whether they're in between
job, whatever those circumstances may be.
And that's very much our focus across the mix,
is trying to look at those different audience to go, "How do we get people
to stay as long as possible?" But what's important
is, it's never just one single audience. It's always the mix of that.
Otherwise, you're too vulnerable.
Yeah. And this is where, for example, the importance of youth travel and backpacker
travel comes in as part of that mix.
They stay for a very long time. They're high participants in
activities. They may well return in the future,
for another visit where they spend more per day.
So it's really looking at the mix of all of those things.
And the primary one I-
We go to David Wilson first.
Yeah.
Good questions coming on off-peak and
shoulder.
And so interested in your
pursuing of the business conference market.
Mm-hmm.
And you'll be well aware there's been a lot of criticism before the Auckland Event
Centre was built, or during,
that, hey, we're at the bottom of the world-
Mm
... this is a highly competitive market.
Mm.
And will we then actually be
predating on the other regions in terms of what their product offering is like?
So do you have sort of any views on those two things, like is this
working for us, and what does it look like into the future?
Yeah.
And how can we get the utilization rates up?
And by working for us, you mean the convention center specifically or the-
No, the whole system.
Yeah.
Because that's a major product now, and so-
Yes
... people will be worried that, that is the product-
Yeah
... others will drop off.
Yeah.
Look, I think
where these major new convention centers help us
is it enables us to have a
seat at the table.
So a convention center is not going to win you a convention.
But if you don't have a convention center, you can't even get to the table.
So where it helps us as a country, having,
I guess the new flagship convention centers of Te Pai,
Tākina, and now the New Zealand International Convention Center,
enables us to get a seat at the table and put a bid forward.
And that gets us there first as New Zealand as a destination, and then the next
task is to-- And then it will be a bit driven
by the needs of the client. How many people are coming?
What's the flight availability? What's the time of year that I'm coming?
That will then dictate into the lower level,
or I guess the next stage of decision-making is which region am I going to choose.
So I don't think it will dilute the offer.
In fact, I think it gets us to the table.
The job then of the people involved is to make sure they're going, well, depending
on what this client wants, the number of people there, the activities they want to
undertake, that's going to lead you to whether that's Auckland or whether
it's Northland or whether it's Christchurch, whatever that might be.
So fundamentally, I think having these three flagship sites
puts us in a much better position to be able to compete
in what is a competitive sector.
Yes. So supplementary on that. So how do you think, given those
developments, that we stack up internationally in a competitive way?
Because there was a lot of skepticism about whether or not we could actually
convert.
Yeah.
I think it puts us in a much better position.
And a convention center, the NZICC has obviously just recently opened.
They've had many events to celebrate that opening.
The convention center, the newest one that's built is always the fanciest
one, so it has the best technology and has the best But that's only relevant
until somebody else builds a new one.
But I have to say, it is a magnificent venue, and it's beautifully done,
and will deliver.
I think within that, again, as my earlier point is all of these things just
get you a seat at the table. I think what's really important, and I must say the
industry does this particularly well, is we have to compete as a country
first.
Mm.
The risk for us is if we try and if we have the major centers competing-
Mm
... against each other and against Sydney, I don't think we can win that battle.
Yes, true.
But if we compete as New Zealand, as a country versus Sydney and
Melbourne and some of those other destinations, and then underneath that, it's
going to compete with which location it goes to.
And I must say, I'm very impressed with how the industry does that.
They really target, choose the country first, and then they'll
slug it out for which of the venues and which of the locations to go to.
So your sense at the moment is it's working for us.
I think it works for us. I was, a couple of months ago at AIM, which is a very
significant trade show based in Melbourne for international conventions.
That was on the eve of the opening of the International Convention Center.
Global buyers are at that event, and these convention centers around the
world don't open that often, so it was really interesting to see that
whilst it's a convention center in New Zealand, it was
the talk of the show.
So I think it puts us in a much better game.
But
we always have to remind ourselves that building a convention center does not mean
it will be filled. It just gets us a seat at the table to compete.
Celia would go.
Thank you.
Following on from
the idea that we want people to spread out and stay longer,
you're still using the slogan 100% Pure.
Do you have concerns that
underfunding environmental protection and
biodiversity, plus
loosening environmental protections on things like mining
mean that tourists might see
opencast mining rather than plateaus of
indigenous vegetation, and there might be fewer swimmable
rivers and more ocean beaches with sewage.
How's that going to match up with 100% Pure
slogan?
Yeah.
So 100% Pure New Zealand has always been a broader
promise to visitors, a 100% Pure New Zealand experience.
I appreciate its correlation, obviously, with the environment,
and that
was launched in 1999. It's 27 years.
Mm-hmm.
So fundamentally, as a marketing tool, it works very
hard for us because it's been very consistent over a number of
years.
For most audiences in the world, I always talk to people, if you live in the 35th
floor of Tower H in Shanghai, it's a pretty great promise
for a destination in terms of the experience.
But having said that, obviously, the experience you get on the ground is going to
be really important to that. People come here for the landscapes and the
sceneryPrimarily as the key reason for coming here, and then they want to
explore our great food and beverage offering, our great cities, all of those
things, but it's the landscape. So having
beautiful, accessible nature and nature experience is going to
be really crucial to that experience.
We continue to monitor that amongst international audiences.
And
so far to date, we have seen that we really deliver.
Our net promoter score is really high as a country for people that come here.
But it is really important that we continue to deliver on that as a country,
because that is the key reason why people come here.
And following on from that,
those are impacts on the environment that are not
related to tourism.
Mm-hmm.
They're different. But
following on from that, tourism, while it brings jobs and can
also open up opportunities for locals to protect the environment better.
Mm-hmm.
There are places where there's over-tourism, and I
think in 2024, there was, I think it was a
Tourism New Zealand study, that showed that there were,
particularly in some areas, quite
negative views from residents. Have you done that study
again-
Mm-hmm
... subsequently to see how residents' views have changed?
Yeah, we do an annual study
together with the industry called the Mood of the Nation study, where we
research New Zealanders, and we do it
actually pre the peak season and post the peak season, so around about October and
March, April, to get New Zealanders' views of
tourism. At a national level-
Mm-hmm
... what's really positive to see is that 94% of New Zealanders
see international tourism as good for New Zealand.
But at a regional level, that does differ.
So I do know that there are some issues in certain
areas around Queenstown, McKenzie country, where you do have
congestion
concerns.
And so it's important for us to always continue to promote all of New
Zealand. How do we get people out and about around all of the
country?
So we're certainly cognizant of that.
At the same time, at a national level, there is very strong support for the
importance of tourism.
So there was a 2024 study. You're saying the 2026 one
won't be complete yet, but there should be a 2025 one that I-
I'm not sure the exact study you're referring to, but I do know that it's a twice a
year-
Well, it's a residence...
I'm not sure if I've got the name of it, but it
was
definitely about-
Yeah
... residents' attitudes to tourism or
over-tourism. Be happy to
receive some information after this if that's all right.
Yeah, so we can, yeah, put forward some-
It's the Mood of the Nation study. I'm happy to share that with everyone.
Yeah. Right. Thank you so much. So we move on to Glen Bennett.
Thank you. I want to talk about your traditional models
of marketing and then the innovative-
Mm-hmm
... new tech, AI, we've touched around a little bit.
In terms of in your report, in, I guess, the last financial year, what are you
doing differently from previous years in terms of
innovating and doing things in the
tech-heavy AI, social media space?
Yeah. It's a great question. I think
technology's fast evolving and marketing's fast
evolving within that, so I often
make sure that I say to people that when we talk about marketing New Zealand, some
people might still think that's about buying radio spots and TV-
Yeah
... and billboards. Actually, that's pretty much not at all.
Australia's a little different for us.
Australia, we are the number one or number two outbound
destination for Australians. We have a really significant share of
travel. So some of the bigger broadcast platforms can work,
still traditional broadcast platforms, can actually work quite well in that market.
Mm-hmm.
But in the US, we were around about a quarter of a percent of their
international travel. We have to be hyper-targeted and
specific on those audiences. So it's pretty much
exclusively digital and social.
Mm-hmm.
Not really any broadcast.
And
there's a continuous innovation, whether that is in how we pay for paid
media, what the role of AI is within that, how that
automatically retargets audiences and optimizes to how they're
interacting with our content, either on social channels or
otherwise. We're fast evolving that space, so we're
increasingly seeing the role of AI in
mapping itineraries and increasingly booking itineraries,
referring to operators. How do we make sure our content is fit for purpose,
discoverable?
Talked a bit about Minecraft and that
innovation. And then there is also just, again,
continuous research to understand how are consumers buying travel, and
that evolves. Whilst there's always going to be traditional trade, and I think
will always play an important role, we're seeing a rapid evolution on how that
changes. AI is one example. The other is actually travel
that is in marketing that can be done through influencer marketing.
Mm-hmm.
And increasingly, those influencers actually linking through to
directly bookable product, that's going to be a bigger role as
we go forward. So we're also quite active in that space.
A supplement?
Yeah. So in terms of as an organization that you lead,
how ready are you in terms of your staffing and your understanding of social media
influencers? I remember last year, I think you talked about an Indian influencer
you used for some marketing, because partly it's picking winners, but
secondly, it is. How do you not only get eyeballs on your phones and
computers-
Yeah
... but it's then, say, turning actually into revenue?
Yeah. We have to continually adapt.
So part of that, I think to answer your question is, we
have a global media agency, Mindshare, that we work with.
They are also at the forefront of what's happening in these technology changes,
making sure that we stay connected on that.
The other is our marketing team is also very focused.
We very much start with the research.
What are consumers doing, how are they looking, and how can we leverage New
Zealand? I think what we've done successfully in the past and
continue to do is there's a real opportunity to work with some of these
emerging technologies
that we're doing at the moment and we have done in the past, where because we're a
smaller destination, some of those platforms, so we've done that in
the past with-Xiaohongshu, which is the
little red book in China, that's very important.
That is now the single biggest user-generated travel platform in
China. When we first partnered with them, it had just started.
It was very small. We were the first destination to partner with them.
Those partners then see the opportunity to test with us.
We're a willing participant. And then quite frankly, they can then commercialize
that opportunity with other destinations as well.
Yeah.
So we see ourselves very much as if we're at the front of that opportunity with
some of those partners. We're working with a partner in the US now at the moment,
which is an emerging travel platform. The same thing.
They're quite keen to work with us because we're smaller, they can test things with
us, and it gives them then an opportunity to expand that into future
destinations as well.
Mm-hmm. A supplementary, Hamish.
Excellent. Thank you. What role do you see your organization playing?
I appreciate you've got the outward reach to attract people-
Mm-hmm
... but actually then when people show an interest in actually coming to New
Zealand, that they have a seamless experience where
they can work out how they can get between cities-
Yeah
... whether they can book.
Is there any one-stop shop that people-
Mm-hmm
... that can then actually remove some of those
uncertainties and kind of make a seamless experience?
Yeah. So obviously our primary focus is international and getting
people here, but we do have some touch points in the New Zealand market.
So one of those would be Qualmark. So Qualmark is a subsidiary
organization of Tourism New Zealand.
It's a quality assurance program.
It works with operators
to test and grade them in terms of what their offer
is. And we see that as important to make sure that we continue
to lift the bar on the quality of what's being delivered.
The second is we're the brand owner of the i-SITE, and actually the
i-SITE at place still plays a key role in terms of
people, I'm in a place, what am I going to do?
Yes, increasingly people are searching on digital, but actually when you're in
place talking to somebody, getting an understanding of what you can do.
The councils broadly run those i-SITES, but we're the brand owner of it.
That's still an important touchpoint, so how do we make sure that's relevant, the
information's right, the service is good, the commercial viability of
that in terms of how do we help
train people who run those i-SITES to actually get a commercial return
on that.
And maybe the last point is we're a partner in the Tiaki Care for New
Zealand program.
Mm-hmm.
It's a private public partnership amongst multiple partners to making sure that
there is communication to visitors about what our expectations are,
whether that's being driving carefully on the roads,
taking care in nature, leaving no trace.
So those are probably three examples of where we're much more connected
into the New Zealand system in terms of the visitor experience.
Mm-hmm. All right. I have a quick sub.
On these things where there is a lot of investment going,
obviously, we are interested in return.
So how do you work out return, and do you break it down
to regions or countries how the return is working on investment?
Investment in infrastructure or investment in-
No. Investment in advertising and attracting tourists.
Yes.
We're very strong on
driving metrics to make sure ultimately that we get good return on investment.
So it starts with what is the core job of the piece of work that we're doing.
So I'll give you the example with our boost funding that we received during this
financial year. The first campaign was in Australia for autumn, encouraging
Australians to come. It was about driving urgency.
The campaign was, "Everyone must go."
Hmm.
And it was about driving urgency. And the
metrics for that, we worked with our key conversion partners.
For example, we worked with Air New Zealand, we worked with Webjet
for other airlines. We worked with
Flight Centre. They agreed to share with us the conversion numbers off the
back of that campaign, so we could see an actual booking number confidentially,
so that we could see how many people actually booked off the back of that
campaign. We also start with going, that was about
driving urgency. We knew from our research that 57% of
Australians at that time were waiting for a deal to push
go. So they were thinking about New Zealand, but they
needed something put in front of them to be able to convert and drive the
urgency.
And the third is we created those platforms,
for New Zealand operators to also upload their offerings.
And we had 800 operator deals loaded up
as part of that campaign. So that might be Hobbiton offering
a visit to their destination, or a jet boat operator, or a hike
operator putting a deal up as part of that campaign.
But ultimately, what we want from our partners is to be able to share the uplift or
the conversion if that's the core target.
Sometimes our work is about more brand metrics.
So how do we get people to increase their consideration of New
Zealand? And we have ongoing consumer research that we do around the world,
to see how those metrics are moving.
Are we moving the needle on consideration of New Zealand, for example?
Yeah. For 2024, 2025, if we say that
for
each dollar,
what would be the return, in simple terms?
Yeah.
Like $1 invested, what was the return?
Yeah. It's hard to get an exact number on that, but if you
aggregate it all up together, it's around about 20 to one.
Okay.
For every dollar spent, about $20 returned in visitor spending.
Okay. Thank you.
Thank you.
We have a new question from-
Step on that one
... a new question from Glenn Bennett.
Thank you. And it's around the fuel prices.
Yes.
And I know it's looking okay, but it is also
in terms of as an organization, are you always preparing for shocks?
And we're just-
Yeah
... obviously trying to bounce back from COVID and now we're here.
But I guess I want to flip it to, well, firstly,
the high fuel price and what that means for travelers.
Secondly-
Route withdrawals, like the potential of airlines-
Mm
... kind of going, "This is too far," or the uncertainty of getting here and-
Yeah
... having no fuel to get back. But then flipping it, so we live in the
Pacific Ocean. We're this amazing, safe place-
Mm
... and Australia, Asia, North, South America.
Just give us a couple of comments around what you're doing around this, the
uncertainty.
Yeah.
But also, I guess, is there any advantage for us in this?
Yeah, obviously hugely topical. So we're firstly, we've been tracking what
is the immediate impact, and particularly out of Europe because more than
40% of Europeans were traveling through the Gulf to come to New
Zealand.
Mm.
So it's a really important flight route to New Zealand.
What the data would suggest is for the month of March, is that the vast majority
have rebooked their trip and come another way, but have arrived in New Zealand.
So I know there's been some statistics released recently around
the number of cancellations and changes.
There's been cancellations, but quite a lot of rebooking as well during that
period of time. So at the moment, we haven't seen a real drop-off
of people arriving for that important March month.
We're actively engaging with the airlines in terms of how they're looking at their
capacity. We're also looking using some of the independent sources like IATA,
which tracks aviation capacity and all of those things to look
at what's happening to price, what's happening to capacity.
Obviously, we're hugely reliant on planes flying here for people to be able to get
here.
Mm.
So that would be a real problem if we are disconnected from the
world. So we're kind of tracking, I guess,
what is the current impact,
and then starting to turn our attention also, what do we think the medium term
impact is in terms of pricing. Airlines to different degrees,
they hedge oil, fuel. American
airline companies tend to not
hedge their fuel, so it's a little different for who is impacted and
how.
Probably in about six weeks to eight weeks time, we'll
start to get an early indication for what next summer, which is the peak
travel period, if there's any softness in that outlook.
And probably,
your last point about safe destination.
Our consumer tracking, I think, will quite quickly show that safety of a
destination is going to become a really important choice.
Mm.
I know that New Zealand is known as a safe destination, so
anecdotally it suggests that I think as a destination, we're probably quite
well-placed,
because we're certainly seen as safe.
And what I expect, and you see that we saw similar during COVID,
is the environment does drive what becomes important.
Yeah.
So I think safety will become an important driver.
During COVID, it was things like healthcare and insurance
became an important driver in decision-making.
Mm.
So,
I expect that to be the case.
Yeah, I guess.
Mm-hmm.
All right. We'll have to conclude there.
Are there any closing remarks that you would like to make?
No, thank you very much for your time this morning.
No, thank you to you. Thank you.
Yeah. Thank you.
Yeah. Thanks.
Thanks for the
invite.